<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>index</title>
  <style>
    html {
      color: #1a1a1a;
      background-color: #fdfdfd;
    }
    body {
      margin: 0 auto;
      max-width: 36em;
      padding-left: 50px;
      padding-right: 50px;
      padding-top: 50px;
      padding-bottom: 50px;
      hyphens: auto;
      overflow-wrap: break-word;
      text-rendering: optimizeLegibility;
      font-kerning: normal;
    }
    @media (max-width: 600px) {
      body {
        font-size: 0.9em;
        padding: 12px;
      }
      h1 {
        font-size: 1.8em;
      }
    }
    @media print {
      html {
        background-color: white;
      }
      body {
        background-color: transparent;
        color: black;
        font-size: 12pt;
      }
      p, h2, h3 {
        orphans: 3;
        widows: 3;
      }
      h2, h3, h4 {
        page-break-after: avoid;
      }
    }
    p {
      margin: 1em 0;
    }
    a {
      color: #1a1a1a;
    }
    a:visited {
      color: #1a1a1a;
    }
    img {
      max-width: 100%;
    }
    svg {
      height: auto;
      max-width: 100%;
    }
    h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
      margin-top: 1.4em;
    }
    h5, h6 {
      font-size: 1em;
      font-style: italic;
    }
    h6 {
      font-weight: normal;
    }
    ol, ul {
      padding-left: 1.7em;
      margin-top: 1em;
    }
    li > ol, li > ul {
      margin-top: 0;
    }
    blockquote {
      margin: 1em 0 1em 1.7em;
      padding-left: 1em;
      border-left: 2px solid #e6e6e6;
      color: #606060;
    }
    code {
      font-family: Menlo, Monaco, Consolas, 'Lucida Console', monospace;
      font-size: 85%;
      margin: 0;
      hyphens: manual;
    }
    pre {
      margin: 1em 0;
      overflow: auto;
    }
    pre code {
      padding: 0;
      overflow: visible;
      overflow-wrap: normal;
    }
    .sourceCode {
     background-color: transparent;
     overflow: visible;
    }
    hr {
      background-color: #1a1a1a;
      border: none;
      height: 1px;
      margin: 1em 0;
    }
    table {
      margin: 1em 0;
      border-collapse: collapse;
      width: 100%;
      overflow-x: auto;
      display: block;
      font-variant-numeric: lining-nums tabular-nums;
    }
    table caption {
      margin-bottom: 0.75em;
    }
    tbody {
      margin-top: 0.5em;
      border-top: 1px solid #1a1a1a;
      border-bottom: 1px solid #1a1a1a;
    }
    th {
      border-top: 1px solid #1a1a1a;
      padding: 0.25em 0.5em 0.25em 0.5em;
    }
    td {
      padding: 0.125em 0.5em 0.25em 0.5em;
    }
    header {
      margin-bottom: 4em;
      text-align: center;
    }
    #TOC li {
      list-style: none;
    }
    #TOC ul {
      padding-left: 1.3em;
    }
    #TOC > ul {
      padding-left: 0;
    }
    #TOC a:not(:hover) {
      text-decoration: none;
    }
    code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
    span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
    div.columns{display: flex; gap: min(4vw, 1.5em);}
    div.column{flex: auto; overflow-x: auto;}
    div.hanging-indent{margin-left: 1.5em; text-indent: -1.5em;}
    /* The extra [class] is a hack that increases specificity enough to
       override a similar rule in reveal.js */
    ul.task-list[class]{list-style: none;}
    ul.task-list li input[type="checkbox"] {
      font-size: inherit;
      width: 0.8em;
      margin: 0 0.8em 0.2em -1.6em;
      vertical-align: middle;
    }
    .display.math{display: block; text-align: center; margin: 0.5rem auto;}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="contribution-guide">Contribution Guide</h1>
<p>Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small! Here
we summarize some general guidelines on how you can get involved in the
Rolldown project.</p>
<h2 id="open-development">Open development</h2>
<p>All development happens directly on <a
href="https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown">GitHub</a>. Both core team
members and external contributors (via forks) send pull requests which
go through the same review process.</p>
<p>Outside of GitHub, we also use a <a
href="https://chat.rolldown.rs">Discord server</a> for real-time
discussions.</p>
<h2 id="reporting-a-bug">Reporting a bug</h2>
<p>Please report bugs to GitHub only after you have previously searched
for the issue and found no results. Be sure to be as descriptive as
possible and to include all applicable labels.</p>
<p>The best way to get your bug fixed is to provide a reduced test case.
Please provide a public repository with a runnable example, or a usable
code snippet. In the future, we will also provide a REPL that runs in
the browser for easier reproductions.</p>
<h2 id="requesting-new-functionality">Requesting new functionality</h2>
<p>Before requesting new functionality, view <a
href="https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/issues">open issues</a> as
your request may already exist. If it does not exist, submit an issue
with the title prefixed with <code>[request]</code>. Be sure to be as
descriptive as possible and to include all applicable labels.</p>
<h2 id="submitting-a-pull-request">Submitting a pull request</h2>
<p>We accept pull requests for all bugs, fixes, improvements, and new
features. Before submitting a pull request, be sure your build passes
locally using the development workflow above.</p>
<p>For setting up the project’s development environment, see <a
href="./setup.md">Project Setup</a>.</p>
<h3 id="branch-organization">Branch organization</h3>
<p>Submit all pull requests directly to the <code>main</code> branch. We
only use separate branches for upcoming releases / breaking changes,
otherwise, everything points to main.</p>
<p>Code that lands in main must be compatible with the latest stable
release. It may contain additional features, but no breaking changes. We
should be able to release a new minor version from the tip of main at
any time.</p>
</body>
</html>
